The President: Hi everybody.
It's now been a year since
the tragic death of Michael
Brown in Ferguson, Missouri.
His death-along with the
events in Cleveland, Staten
Island, Baltimore,
Cincinnati, and other
communities-sparked protests
and soul searching all
across our country.
Over the past year, we've
come to see, more clearly
than ever, the frustration
in many communities of color
and the feeling that
our laws can be
applied unevenly.
After Ferguson, I said that
we had to face these
issues squarely.
I convened a task force on
community policing to find
commonsense steps that can
help us drive down crime and
build up trust and
cooperation between
communities and police, who
put their lives on the line
every single day to
help keep us safe.
And I've met personally with
rank and file officers to
hear their ideas.
In May, this task force
made up of police officers,
activists and academics
proposed 59 recommendations
- everything from how we can
make better use of data and
technology, to how we train
police officers, to how law
enforcement engages
with our schools.
And we've been working with
communities across America
to put these
ideas into action.
Dozens of police departments
are now sharing more data
with the public, including
on citations, stops and
searches, and shootings
involving law enforcement.
We've brought together
leaders from across the
country to explore
alternatives to incarceration.
The Justice Department has
begun pilot programs to help
police use body cameras and
collect data on the
use of force.
This fall, the department
will award more than $160
million in grants to
support law enforcement and
community organizations
that are working to
improve policing.
And all across the country
- from states like Illinois
and Ohio, to cities like
Philadelphia, Boston, and
Nashville - local leaders
are working to implement the
task force recommendations
in a way that works for
their communities.
So we've made progress.
And we'll keep at it.
But let's be clear: the
issues raised over the past
year aren't new, and they
won't be solved by
policing alone.
We simply can't ask our
police to contain and
control issues that the rest
of us aren't willing to
address-as a society.
That starts with reforming a
criminal justice system that
too often is a pipeline
from inadequate schools to
overcrowded jails, wreaking
havoc on communities and
families all
across the country.
So we need Congress
to reform our federal
sentencing laws for
non-violent drug offenders.
We need to keep working to
help more prisoners take
steps to turn their
lives around so they can
contribute to their
communities after they've
served their time.
More broadly, we need to
truly invest in our children
and our communities so that
more young people see a
better path for their lives.
That means investing in
early childhood education,
job training,
pathways to college.
It means dealing honestly
with issues of race,
poverty, and class that
leave too many communities
feeling isolated and
segregated from
greater opportunity.
It means expanding that
opportunity to every
American willing to work for
it, no matter what zip code
they were born into.
Because, in the end, that's
always been the
promise of America.
And that's what I'll keep
working for every single day
that I'm President.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.